# Week 9, Lecture 15 on 16 October 2021 - CS1.301.M21 Algorithm Analysis and Design

## NP-Completeness Theory

### The Class NP

A verifier for a language A is an algorithm V, where
$$
A = \{w| V \text{ accepts } \langle w,c \rangle \text{ for some string c }\}
$$
NP is the class of languages that have polynomial time verifiers.



**Example 1:** 
$$
\text{CLIQUE} = \{\langle G,k \rangle | G \text{ is an undirected graph with a k-clique}\}
$$
V = On input $\langle\langle G,k\rangle,c\rangle$:
1. Test whether c is a subgraph with k nodes in G.
2. Test whether G contains all edges connecting nodes in c.
3. If both pass, accept; otherwise, reject.

This verifier V is a verifier for CLIQUE.



**Example 2:**
$$
SUBSET-SUM = {\langle S,t\rangle| S = \{x_1 ,...,x_k\}, 
\text{ and for some }\{y_1 ,...,y_l\} ⊆ \{x_1 ,...,x_k \}, \text{ we have } Σy_i = t}.
$$


## Polynomial Time Reducibility

A polynomial time reduction of A to B is a function $f$:
$$
w \in A \iff f(w) \in B
$$
i.e. if an answer w belongs to A then $f$ is a polynomial time reduction if and only if $f(w)$ also belongs to B.

> 3SAT is a boolean satisfiability problem

3SAT is polynomial time reducible to CLIQUE.
$$
3SAT = \{\langle \phi \rangle | \phi \text{ is a satisfiable 3cnf-formula}\}
$$

> When a problem polynomial time reducible to another it really means that if a problem is polynomial time solvable then with only polynomial time effort we can also solve the other problem.

**Proof of reducibility of 3SAT to CLIQUE: ** Sipser, pg.302 Theorem 7.32 



## NP Completeness

A language B is _NP-complete_ if it satisfies two conditions:

1. B is in NP, and 
2. Every A in NP is polynomial time reducible to B.

Since polynomial time reducibility is a transitive property, if a language C is polynomial time reducible to B then C is also NP-Complete.



SAT (boolean satisfiability) was proved to be NP-complete. Now any problem reducible to/from then that problem is also NP-complete.
