# Assignment 1 - The Overcoat



> However, I believe that Gogol's "The Overcoat" is not just a simple story of social criticism or satire, but a complex work that explores the human condition.

<div align='right'><b>- ChatGPT</b></div>



Above is a point made regarding Nikolai Gogol's *The Overcoat* made by the most notable entity in the current zeitgeist of artificial intelligence. It remains an acceptable interpretation of Gogol's immortal work. The truly earned accolade of being his immortal work comes from the fact that there is so much more left to analyse and discuss about it.



It's worth prefacing this entire essay with a disclaimer. There is really no indication of any particular intention behind The Overcoat or any of its sections. It is my belief that most of Gogol's writing is simply a product of what he *wanted* to write. Gogol remains a visionary writer —  it certainly doesn't take away from the meaning and substance that his works have. It is clear though, that Gogol wasn't trying to be *someone*.

Of course, once a work has been published the creator ceases to own it. Especially a literary work, the meaning and scope of a work becomes more of a result of the people that consume it. We, as readers and analysts, though, must keep in mind that any perceived intention is, in all probability, not there. Instead we need to take Gogol's works a word at a time.



The story centres around Akaky Akakievich, a rather introverted clerk, obsessed with his work. His nature is overly exaggerated. Surely, no readers can relate to the level at which Akakievich both keeps to himself and, in a sense, is infatuated with his work. Even though this is the case, there is an inexplicable pull that we have towards him. There are times where every grown individual has felt how Akakievich feels on the regular.

His character evolves as the plot progresses. As soon as Akakievich comes into possession of his new Overcoat, there is a sharp departure from his almost near-unbelievable demeanour. The inexplicable pull becomes very much explicable. One finds that Akakievich's anticipation and real excitement to receive his new Overcoat is so much like any similar situation in our lives.

> At each instant of every minute he felt that there was a new overcoat on his shoulders, and several times he even smiled from inner satisfaction. (p. 226)

Akakievich becomes the personification of a caged bird set free. What exactly was his cage? And what freed him? That is inconsequential for this argument. The evolution of himself brings the reader to relate to him so well. Gogol does this to make us feel for him. That makes his eventual downfall all the more impactful.



ChatGPT calls this text "not just a simple story of social criticism or satire". It frames the Overcoat as "Akaky's dignity and self-worth". At a deeper level this is true. But I think it worthy to look at it, in the following way.

The new Overcoat surely enabled Akakievich to lend himself more worth... But is it truly entirely from within? Having lived for so long with no real individual desire — his love for writing stemming from his work. The protagonist has never really desired for a material item in the way that he has for the Overcoat. Granted, not in a spectacular way, but he wanted it. Finally having received it, he begins to be treated differently and seen in a different light. Being treated differently will certainly change the way one treats oneself. 

As an extension, we could read the new Overcoat as signifying one's rank. Throughout the story, Gogol's opinion of the social hierarchy is evident. As mentioned earlier, it certainly is not the case that Gogol inserts these with overt intention. It is more probable that these are simply his thoughts and preconceptions that made it into the story.

> When he happened to be with his equals, he was as a man ought to be, a very decent man, in many respects even not a stupid man; but as soon as he happened to be in the company of men at least one rank beneath him, he was simply as bad as could be: ... (p. 230)

Reading into the Overcoat being a symbol of importance isn't so new but the context provides for a more broad understanding of its presence. Akaky, in particular, receiving this new status, would be entirely different from any old aristocrat receiving a new coat. But why this character in particular? Ah! The point is really driven home when we examine where he came from, what his life used to, his figurative "cage". This is more impactful than, say, a serf winning the lottery. The circumstances of Akakievich's previous life were more of a prison than any  level of poverty. When someone like this receives a symbol such as the Overcoat, it  follows that he is so much more deserving.